---
layout: post
title:  "Being kind to CI"
image: "assets/images/kubernetes.png"
author: nick
categories: [ kubernetes ]
featured: true
hidden: false
---

If you are building an application that will be deployed on Kubernetes you will inevitably want to test your application in a real Kubernetes environment, ideally it would be automated, and hopefully in a nice and simple way. That is what `kind` is for.

# Our problem

For one of our projects the codebase is a set of Java-based micro-services that are deployed into Kubernetes and communicate with each other via Kubernetes Services with a well known naming convention `resource-a`, `resource-b` etc that is known at compile time. There are a few other features of Kubernetes we use, such as InitContainers and Secrets that means testing the application as a whole outside of Kubernetes is difficult.

I expect this is a fairly standard problem, but luckily the recent addition of Kubernetes natively into Docker for Mac ([in stable now!](https://blog.docker.com/2018/07/kubernetes-is-now-available-in-docker-desktop-stable-channel/)) enables a very clean local development workflow of building Docker images for each micro-service and deploying to the local Docker for Mac Kubernetes instance for local development and testing.

We use Gitlab CI and review apps for persistent deployed environments for QA or others teams to interact with. Docker images are built, pushed to a registry and then deployed to a new Kubernetes namespace where they can be used. But how do we easily close the gap where we want a totally ephemeral Kubernetes environment to deploy our newly committed code to after its pushed to `git` but before its deployed to a proper environment? How do we run integration tests in CI to assert quality before merging a PR? We could deploy it to a proper Kubernetes environment, and thats what Gitlab seems to want us to do with [AutoDevOps](https://about.gitlab.com/auto-devops/) but we want something totally ephemeral, if the CI build/test job fails we don't want anything left around to cleanup.

# Existing answers

Other than various flavours of deploying to a static cluster (like AutoDevOps), there seems to be a bit of a community around  [kubeadm-dind-cluster](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubeadm-dind-cluster/) which aims to start an single master, single node cluster via Docker-in-Docker and succeeds at its goal, but its slow, separates master and node, and is not as extensible as we would like.

# kind (Kubernetes-in-Docker)

Our answer to this was to draw inspiriation of the best bits of the existing solutions and roll them into [kind](https://github.com/bsycorp/kind), which is a drop-in Docker-in-Docker based image that starts a Kubernetes cluster in less than 30 seconds, exposes all the `kubeadm` generated certs, kubecfg etc and has hooks to prime it with docker images you don't want to pull for every CI run (like `nginx` or `debian` etc).

The intent of `kind` is to front-load all of the cluster building, configuration, image pulling behaviour into the `kind` build phase and do as little as possible in the run phase. Doing it this way means that when `kind` is started it starts _fast_ and makes few remote calls (could be none with more effort), this is how we get to <30 seconds from the ~5 minutes for `kubeadm-dind-cluster`.

It also makes it easier to use, as it is effectively an extended Kubernetes-enabled version of Docker's `dind` it can be used as a CI service like `dind` is, so can be dropped into an existing CI job as a service, often with a single line of YAML configuration.

For example in Gitlab it looks like this:
(from https://github.com/bsycorp/kind-gitlab-example/blob/master/.gitlab-ci.yml)
```
...
integration-test:
  services:
    - bsycorp/kind:latest-1.10
...
```

Benefits of `kind`:
- Docker-in-docker based, means no cleanup, totally ephemeral
- Combined master and node, this avoids Docker-in-docker-in-docker (!)
- You can have multiple CI jobs with difference versions of Kubernetes, test both 1.9 and 1.10 at the same time.
- Can run tests against versions of Kubernetes you don't operate yet. Gitlab themselves have this problem as of writing (https://gitlab.com/charts/gitlab/issues/674)

# How to use?

More details in the Readme: https://github.com/bsycorp/kind

Feedback or problems: https://github.com/bsycorp/kind/issues

Examples of common CI configurations: https://github.com/bsycorp/kind#can-i-use-it-on-my-cloud-cicd-provider

